Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.





What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class? --Class is like a blueprint for objects, it contains all the variable and methods so the object can use it
What is object?-- Object is an instance of a class ( like a house built followed by the blueprint)
What is the entry point of an application? --Declaring a class
Why main is static? --It is called by itself, it doesnt need an instance of a class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes? -- the class that all the other classes inherit from
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class? Interface doesnt have bodies for its methods, abstract class can have both.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ? No, we cant, since interface and abstract class dont have Constructors;
what is Access Specifier? -- they regulate access to variable, methods and classes in java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP. object oriented programming. Inheritance, polimorphism, encapsulation, abstraction
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default? Package organizes the set of related classes and Interfaces;
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far. -- third party packages that you can import to your class. XML reader.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not? -- No, java doesnt. To avoid  ambiguity error
What is method overloading and when it happens? overloading is haveing two methods with the same name but different parameters.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it. you can try catch exceptions. Exception is a condition that an apllication might want to catch.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ? static means it doesnt need instance of a class to be called
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods? final means it cant be changed . Its a constant.
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ? Constructor initializes the instance of a class with starting parameters
Can we have multiple constructors in a class? yes, we can
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation? it will be given a default constructor
What is "this" keyword in java ? this refers to the current object
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use? it is needed to call a superclass public method from a subclass
What is JVM stand for ?Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent? yes
What version of java are you using? 8.0
What is JAR stand for ? archiever
What is the difference between JDK and JVM? JDK is a software development environment that contains JVM inside JRE . JVM is a runtime instance, if we create a command, JVM instance is created.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE? JRE is a set of minimum requirements neede to run a program, including classes, etc.
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap? Data that has memory for all the instances of classes created;
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class? the class that can obly have 1 instance at the same time
What is Serialization and Deserialization? the reverse proccess of creating object from bytes
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?in do while code can be executed at least once even if condition is false;
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?its an instance that iterate list and maps in Java
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer? Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java? because they are cahsed in a different way
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java? Thread is a small programm that run at the same time with the application by itself;
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework? Framework is a set of classes and methods that help people build their project faster
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project? different text files or other files
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









