Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures? retrieve and store data
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively? store data from the databases, count and iterate;
what is an Array? Array is an object that contains similar objects
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList? Arraylist is dynamic , you can always add to it a value. And Array can contain both primitive and Objects
what is LinkedList? each element of linkedlist is connected to its next one
How is an Array different from Linked List? each element of linkedlist is connected to its next one
what is queue? it adds data to the end of the queue and removes the first ones;
what is stack? Stack adds element on the top of stack and with method pop() removes from the top as well;
what is FIFO and LIFO? lifo is Last in First OUt, First in First Out
what is the order of complexity? The time taken for completing the task
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
what is tree in data structure?
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


